Good to go. Uh-huh. Good
evening. It's 07:01.
We're gonna first order the December
work meet of the.
If you're not muted, no. Thank you.
We'll
stand the pledge.
The pledge of allegiance to the flag of The United States Of America and to the republic for which it stands,
one nation under God, indivisible,
with liberty and justice for all.
Okay. If you saw our agenda, you'll see that you don't have to adjust your screen.
This is Val Bruno. Mhmm. This is our annual,
what we call reorganization,
meeting. So very quickly, for people who are unfamiliar with what a reorganization meeting is. So at the present moment, at 07:01, you are between,
chair people at this moment in time. This reorganization
meeting is for the seven members of the board to, select or reselect depending on how that goes, a chair, a vice chair, and a secretary.
So you'll notice on the agenda, that's the first line of business after the comments from the public at the top.
So with that in mind, I will call for comments on the public. Charlene, can I help you?
Any comments?
Charlene's iPhone?
We'll
go back to her.
Terry's not public. Terry's our finance person who happens to be on Zoom tonight. Mike is also a member of the board.
Jennifer Goldrick, any comments from the public?
I'm all set. Thank you.
Tina Frazier?
No comments. Thank you.
>> Liz Locatch?
Okay. I'm gonna assume Charlene and Liz are okay.
Yeah. Sorry. I'm all set. I couldn't figure out the mute button.
Okay. And then Dawn is the board clerk. So do I have everybody? Is it, Anne for May?
Yep.
>> I'm fine. Thank you. All set. Okay. Did I miss anybody? Liz is trying to get on, I think. Liz is Yeah. I'm here. Yeah. Liz is here. Thank you. I'm I'm fine. I was trying to figure out the mute as well. Thank you. Okay.
>> Okay. So then we'll jump right in. And the way this works for anybody who has not done a reorganization meeting for the board of education,
What will happen is, I'm stepping in right now, and I will ask for nominations from the board,
for chairperson
for the next, twelve months.
A a board member may
nominate somebody. They'll make a motion to nominate somebody. It will need to be seconded, and then there will be discussion. If, discussion goes fine, then that person,
will wind up being nominated
and then brought in as the, chair for this year.
And then they will take over the rest of the meeting. And from there, they will move on to do the same thing for vice chair and for secretary.
If there's only one candidate, our roll call vote will be a yes or a no for that person. If there are multiple candidates,
the roll call vote will be to name the person that they are voting for for that position,
for that open position.
If there's no questions from anybody?
>> Just point of information for two items.
I was just reviewing the bylaws.
It's been preparation for this, and 9120
says this should happen
after the July
meeting. Now do we need to update bylaws?
>> Or Nope. The person has to have twelve months. And because things,
went awry roughly around COVID,
with the time, that's the reason why we had to wait to do this. So that's last had twelve months as the chair.
So
moving forward,
if that's what we opt to do, in the future, we'll adjust that during the course of this year,
to reflect that it will be twelve months from the time that the person is selected. Twelve months from The part of the policy. Correct. You would add that to the policy. Correct. Can I can I make a comment? Yes.
>> So, also,
just in terms of, like, looking at what other boards in our town have recently done or Mhmm. They looked at changing that from what our bylaws currently say, which the board of finance said similar to changing it to December
>> because it would be right after elections since and part of that is because our elections for for town stuff used to be then Yes. In May, and now they're in November. November. So it sounds like this needs to be updated at some point with. Got it. But we had to make sure that the person who was the chair had twelve months. So that's why we waited, for this meeting. So The second item I wanted to bring up and just for a point of information. So with the executive session for the next one,
that I reached out to you, Celeste, as Volatierra, I reached out to you to get clarification whether,
if if we get to that point, if we can go into executive session Mhmm.
And just reading through what the purpose of the executive session was. I just concerned that it wasn't the proper purpose, so I just wanted to get clarification.
>> So the only reason why, so it can absolutely be used to fill a vacancy. We know the board of selectmen's done that as well. Mhmm.
Normally, it would need to be done to fill a vacancy here since you're all already a part of Yep. The board itself. So we're gonna be a new member coming aboard. But when Celeste and I spoke about this and I know that the guru on FOIA is Mark Sanmaruka, who's my attorney in the other district.
The reason why that was put on for purposes of if you guys needed it would be if there is a discrepancy between who you guys would like to vote for and one of your reasons has to do with something that you've discussed in an executive session before. Mhmm. So
Yep. That would be something that you wouldn't be discussing in public with myself and Taylor or the general public. Somebody's on trying to get in. So
that was on there for an as if because if that was going to sway the decision of this board as to who your people would be for chair, vice chair, and secretary,
by all means, you'd have to have the opportunity, and you couldn't add or delete after
we got to the additions and deletions.
And so we wanted to make sure that if you guys felt the need to have that conversation and that it
pertains to something that was discussed in an executive session, you'd have that opportunity prior. Okay. That's a great can't vote in an executive session.
Obviously, I know everybody knows that. So you would have to have that conversation in executive session then come back, and then we would call the roll call vote from there. Okay. Thank you. Okay? So it was an FYI thing.
Okay. Is everybody ready then?
Okay.
So number three on here is nominations for
board of ed officer, and we will take the first,
nomination. They call for nominations for the chairperson.
I only want to nominate Shannon, board chairperson.
Is there a second?
Would like second the motion.
>> Okay, Mike nominates Shannon.
I mean, nominates Shannon, and Mike seconds it.
Are there other nominations for chairperson?
>> Yes. I'd like to make a motion to nominate Caitlyn for chair.
>> Is
there a second?
I'll second.
And so Celeste and Breanne, are there any other nominations for chairperson?
Any other nominations for chairperson?
Okay.
So this would be your opportunity as a board to have a discussion.
I
will leave it open to you guys to decide if you'd like to call. If somebody would like to call for executive session, you would just have to make a motion to go into executive session.
Okay. No need for executive session. Is there any discussion that needs to occur? If not, I'll call the roll.
And, again, because there's two candidates,
Shannon has been nominated as has Caitlyn.
When I go around, you will just simply
cite whether you are voting for the chairperson to be Shannon or for the chairperson to be Kate.
And I'll just go around.
Jerry?
Sure.
I'll call Mike because the seat's right here.
Mike, I have a seat here for you. Sorry that you're on Zoom. Mike? Sure. Sure. Shannon.
Eric? Caitlin.
Great. Caitlin.
Celeste? Caitlin.
Caitlin?
I'll hold for myself.
Shannon? I'll hold for myself.
Congratulations, Caitlin.
>> Okay.
So and don't revoke them.
The chairperson for this next year is Caitlin.
Congratulations,
Caitlin, and I I wrote down for you what you need here. So Okay. So, it follows the same, path. So I will then turn this meeting officially over to Caitlin,
and Caitlin will be, taking over as chair. So you can just come right on with me.
I heard you. Yeah. Could stay here. Yep.
Mhmm.
Leave your stuff up.
>> Yep.
So
next, we would be voting
for who would like to be vice chair. And I just wanted to ask,
I think if I remember correctly, we are required to have a
chair and a secretary, but not required to have a vice chair. Is that correct? Okay.
So if we can't agree on a vice chair, if no one wants to be a vice chair, then we will go without.
Are there any nominations for
>> vice chair? I would like to nominate
Mike Barkley. Okay.
Does anyone wanna second that? I second that.
>> Any other nominations for vice chair? Yeah. I'd like to nominate Eric Becker for vice chair.
Anyone would like to second that? I'll second that.
>> Just I'm sorry. Just to make sure you just speak up. It looks easier for us to forget. I'm sorry. She just can't hear us. Sorry. I know it's easy to forget. So
>> can you repeat it for me? Because I'm So so
>> Jerry nominated Mike Beckwith, and Shannon seconded that nomination.
Celeste
nominated Eric,
and Brie
seconded that nomination. Okay.
>> So we can go around and people can say who they would like to vote for.
>> Can we have discussion first?
Yeah. Yeah. Is there any one? So I have I have something to say, I very much appreciate the the nomination, Jerry, I appreciate the second.
I have no interest in being vice chair, so I'd be
like to be removed from consideration. Thank you.
>> Okay.
Are there any other nominations
that people would like to make?
No. I want to do it. Mean
You
wanna reconsider?
I figured.
And then maybe Carrie.
>> Is someone is someone seconding that, or you're nominating your shotgun, she's seconding? Yeah. We'll go with that. Okay.
Okay.
Is there anyone that would like to have further discussion?
No. I don't think so. Okay.
>> So
we can go ahead and vote then. So we're looking at
Jerry
and then also for Eric. Okay. Okay.
Shannon?
Jerry. Okay.
Eric.
Marie, Eric,
Mike.
Jerry.
>> I'll go for myself. K.
Okay.
So
I guess I'm tied for Joe here.
Vote for Eric. I'd like to get smart.
So
Eric is going to be vice chair,
and then we can vote.
>> Joanne just needs to review the roll call. She can hear it. So it was four for Eric and three for Jeremy.
Hard to hear. Can we maybe just can you push that closer to help? Or It doesn't go much further. Oh, yeah. It doesn't go much further. We just gotta speak up. That's all.
Or
do can we turn the speaker up on it too, or does that not turn on? There's don't a little on that.
>> Can you hear me clearly?
You need names, Dawn? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So she can hear me clearly. It just have to be at this volume. So Jerry voted for Jerry.
>> Kate voted for Eric.
Shannon voted for Jerry.
Celeste voted for Eric.
Mike voted for Jerry.
Reeve voted for Eric.
Eric voted for Eric.
It was better, so that's good. Is better?
Yep. Okay. Okay.
>> Okay.
The
next would be that we need to vote for secretary.
Are there any nominations for secretary?
>> I'll I'll nominate myself for secretary. I would second you as of last year.
Any other nominations for secretary?
>> Okay.
So seeing no other nominations, we don't need to do a roll call. So Celeste will or we do need to do a roll call stuff?
I'll vote for myself. Okay.
Mike?
I'll vote for Celeste.
>> Aye.
Brie? Celeste.
Eric? Celeste.
Gary? Both. Aye. I will vote for Celeste.
I will also vote for. Alright.
>> K.
So in terms of election of officers for this year, I believe that concludes what we need to elect. We don't need an executive session, so we'd move on to communications.
Does
anyone have anything
that would fall under communications that isn't falling under another area?
I don't have any
No?
No. Okay.
>> Are there student celebrations for tonight? We
did not, but I will say that we are entering into spelling bee season. So we'll have more. I just wanted the mom saying Thank you. So
I'm certain we will have as we get into the winter with lots of fun things coming up, we will have more spring celebrations to share. Okay.
>> That list is good. Ready. Thanks, Taylor. Cheers. Thank you. No problem.
And
>> then we need to approve minutes from the November 13 meeting. I move to approve the minutes from November 13 meeting.
Okay. So I need to to second. All
in favor?
Aye.
Anyone opposed?
>> No? Okay. So seven zero zero for approving minutes.
Would
anyone like to add or delete agenda items?
I I have nothing to add or delete.
No?
Other celebrations?
>> I know. In front of you, you guys have a small gift because this is a holiday,
meaning there isn't another one until after the New Year.
So please think of AS when you have a clock in the morning when you wear your night shirt and those little trivets that were made that have the.
So
>> thank thank you for a year. You can see them with this? No.
>> Valve it. Yeah.
You can make them all. They're great. Thank you. Handmade, actually. No. They're beautiful. Thank you. Really pretty. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah.
>> I think she's under. Handmade by
a staff
member. She's out there doing the Baldwin's father. Oh, wow. People. Thank you. Thank you. Nice. Thank you. They're they're very nice. Thank you.
>> Any other celebrations?
No? Nope. I don't I don't have them. Okay.
So we'll move on to reports.
Chairperson's oral report.
>> Do you have a report prepared? I I or no? I do not. I do not, Caitlin. I don't have anything prepared. Nope. Anything that I would have to talk about is covered under
I
report. Same here. Same. Yep. K.
So
we'll move on to the superintendent's report. Okay.
>> Most of it's gonna be covered under your other things,
but I will just do two
okay. Is that one on here? No. So I'll just do two things that came up from last month as we do facilities.
So here is
for everybody.
Here's
two.
Here is the
maintenance vendor schedule.
And,
Mike, I'm gonna send this stuff with your gift.
I'll put it in the office for tomorrow so that you have these things.
So
this is the what we have that we said we would share. This is the
maintenance vendor schedule. So as we can see on there,
it has the vendors that we currently use, the services provided,
the service schedule, and the last date of service. So for example, Boston O'Neil, they do our asbestos testing.
Actually, that's a typo there because the asbestos testing is every three years. Think
So I didn't notice that on there.
And that is the one that we just voted on two months ago with
the board. We have not completed it yet. It's come due.
And you'll see USA Mechanical does boiler maintenance and HVAC annually four times a year.
They were done, July, and they were done in September.
And, you know, you can read the rest seven times a year. We have the boiler water treatment.
One time,
every two years, Hartford Steen comes in and does the boiler inspection. And as you can see, we are on a regular schedule.
We're up to date,
on everything that you see here.
You'll see there's a a back to that as well.
Is the asbestos testing, is it already scheduled, or you guys are waiting for that? I did not schedule that one because, we were waiting for that because that was, that's. But
as you see on the back, radon was just done, and we have mutually rubbish with Picella if our septic wants a heater. And the water test, by the way, was done today. That cross section survey was completed.
We did it in two parts because when they came out to do the cross connection survey,
there was a
little device that had to be input.
And so they went they purchased a little device, and a little device was put in today. So we'll get our report back from them. They were here this morning. Once that comes back, that's the date that will go on here because then that's the date that I use in terms of when it's reported to the state.
In addition to this, we have an AES maintenance vendor schedule on an as meeting.
>> That just means that we have utilized them, but we don't have, them on a regular set schedule with this. Is the water testing a certain amount of times per year? Is it based on what the results are? Or
>> It's annually,
but, like, that cross connection's not annual.
So Okay. You know, it it definitely notify us when that needs to be done. So
our contract with Loughran, which Millennium is the same as Loughran. It's an LLC.
So
they
there were a couple of things that used to be due annually that are now built into their contract because they are things that have to be done regularly. So
so, yeah, so these are the contracts with them. In terms of the vendors scheduled as needed, you'll see,
like, Dime Oil. They are oil person. We signed a contract with them, but we don't have a delivery schedule. We deliver as needed with them. Seaward
Electric, I'll talk about them in just a second.
New England Steam Clean, we do get carpets cleaned
usually every summer because there are carpets in every single
classroom
in the lower grades
for for their for their little story times. But,
you know, sometimes
we don't have the steam cleaning company come out and do them. Sometimes they're done in house with our small cleaners. So so and so you can see from here, these are the who we calls when we need them.
And so I made sure that everybody has a copy of that or backsides
to each one of them. So
when we're putting together
schedules,
this is what Scott,
the hypostolian, and I use
and Terry. When something needs to be done, these are the numbers that that we move to that we have contacts with.
So that was the first part of that.
Still with facilities, we're there is one thing that we do have to get done, and it's a safety factor, so it's, you know, a little urgent.
We have had an issue with
the lights outside in the parking lot. There are now six of them that are out in the parking lot,
and that is something that falls under our purview.
And so we, spoke with Seaward.
Thankfully, we have not had to do any, repair and maintenance on those lights in quite some time. So they came out. They took a look, and, they said that, when they looked at this, they said we're going to have to replace the ones that are inside,
which involves also having to so all six,
having to rent a lift.
And so we're gonna do it in one fell swoop instead of
piecemeal because then you have to rent the lift every time. And it's not the same kind of lift that they're utilizing,
obviously, to do the gym when they do the exhaust pants. Because, otherwise, when they do the exhaust fan, they would just do it at the same time, but it's not the same. So how how many lights are there total? They need to be replaced six. But how many are there?
This is outside. 13. Okay. Those big ones. Oh. All of the ones against the grass out here Yep. But those are out. They're just not working tonight? No. Those are out. Okay. So
Did they stay close at the other ones?
>> Yep. And they they did a diagnostic on them. And and And those ones are okay. Okay. So,
yep. So
and to get these lights replaced,
they're about 1,000
and,
about a little over a thousand dollars apiece. Okay. So, the quote is 7,350.
And, again,
you know, it came to our attention originally because, some of the teachers were noticing that when they were leaving here now at 05:00
with it being darker, they were feeling like, especially with the state of affairs with the parking lot, that they, couldn't safely get to their cars. And so we said, okay. It's gotta be one or the other. We gotta fix this. So, the original quote,
was 11,000.
And, you know, anything that was not necessary to have that done
is what we opted not to to do. So and, again, that is meaning getting them all done at one time with one lift instead of them saying, well, we can do this and then return to this lift on this day. He's like, nope. Give us a quote, or if we did it all at one time. So
so that's the estimate that I have here. And
like I said, the other repairs and maintenance were just serviced this month.
You know, the the one of those seven for the boiler for them to come in,
the radon test, which we had started last month, so we got the results back from that
and
the
the water from today.
And so we'll continue every month to give you those updates.
Grants
are so quiet right now. It's killing me. The
only two this month that I was able to put in for was to get a year three
of our mental health grant.
And so that's already been approved.
The only disclaimer
with that mental health
grant is, remember, we're utilizing that for additional services for Care of Armspeak
and when we added
that that service time with her. So the only difference from the first two years of that grant was it was 100%
funded
in the first year and the second year. It gets funded 70.
So the good thing is they go on the number that they gave you the first two years,
and then they say you qualify for 70% of that, which I still think is a win win because it doesn't cost us. It's not like we match it because without the grant, we have to pay the whole thing in our budget. So, the good thing is, although it's 30% technically
of the cost of that time,
we
can't go down in time with her. So, we would have had to put the whole bill. Mhmm.
With that 70% assistance,
you'll see when we get to,
the final draft of the budget that that will mean that the psych line psychological services line in the budget will not go up.
So we won't have an increase because,
we are gonna be getting,
a percentage
of
of services,
in this week. So that's the good thing.
So that's a plus. The other one that I was able to get extended for a year three is that summer mental health grant that we had two summers. And, again, I think it was 18,000,
about 18,000. I can't remember the exact number, but,
18,000 for those two years. And,
we weren't sure if we get the third year, so we did have a
couple of thousand dollars left to it that we were going to use toward this summer services anyways.
And,
again,
it's a 70%.
So, if we didn't get the 70%, we wouldn't have been able to do anything this summer because it wasn't in the budget. So, we will utilize it again and reconfirm
with,
and so we'll continue to have that service for so and when I say year three, by the way, it's not this summer. '25 was already confirmed. It's '26.
So for the AhM summer. Because summer remember, summer programs take place after July 1, so they're technically always the next fiscal year. Right. So the one that we just had this past July
was already from this fiscal year.
That make sense? Yeah. So you know what I mean? We're gonna be budgeting for the next year, but it's gonna go into the following year. So,
and, unfortunately,
that's it for grants this month.
So we're gonna keep our fingers crossed. We, were notified that, and this doesn't, pertain to our general fund,
but we were notified that we'll qualify for six more six more slots next year for,
preschool.
And so that doesn't affect,
our general fund. It just means that if there were six more children of our existing 61 kids that qualified for school readiness,
then we would receive that money.
And so, again, that's not, necessarily for the the right now that we fill those six slots. But as soon as we could fill those six slots
with people,
whose children
met the criteria of school readiness, then we'd be eligible for that.
So,
the good thing is is if we can get that this year, I've mentioned this before. I know we talked about the fact that outside,
there's currently only one area that's fenced in for preschool.
And if there are multiple classes out there that really is difficult
for staff,
in the warmer weather. In the snow, they move slower.
But when there's no snow, they run pretty darn fast, those three and four year olds. So,
we really feel that it's a safety issue for us not to have at least one more section for preschool,
And we are hoping that if this money comes in, that we would be able to because that would be an expensive preschool expense that would be able to go through the preschool fund.
And so if that comes in, that would be what we'd be wanting to do. Okay? Would it be just to fund existing
area? We've created that play area. It's just not fenced in. Okay. So okay. And I can tell you because I did fence in an area roughly about that size,
and it's expensive. They run between 4 and 7,000
to do those areas. So
Right. So,
that is absolutely one of the things that we'd be looking to do,
if that, is fully approved for us. So because if it is fully approved, the amount of money we'd be talking about for some slots would be 36,000.
So,
because it's $6,000
a slot. So, again, we have to make sure we have kids that meet that criteria. And once we establish if we have kids that meet that criteria, then if we have one kid that meets that criteria, we would get 6,000 more. If have two, we would get 12,000 more. And that well, that's Andover students, or is that It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter.
Obviously, the precedent is given to your your your kids first.
But very oftentimes, if our students
don't meet that threshold since they are part of the school readiness for Andover and elementary school, it could be an out of town because there's no guidelines
on whether it has to be an in towner or an out of towner as long as it's part of the program. So Got it. So so if we need to fence that in, when would
>> when would we when will you have to make that decision
>> by?
Well, it's funny because with fencing, you know, the weather has to be warm enough to be able to do that. Yes. So what we would do is we would just simply wait until we knew we were gonna get at least one of the extra 6,000,
and then you would contact to probably the same vetting company that we had do the other one. And
then
simply say to them,
soon as the weather gets warm enough, we'd like you to do Okay. Because then if you have a nice warm February week or a warm March week when they're looking for work, that's usually when they go out there and say, okay. So we would sign the contract and say, as soon as you can get to it, get to it.
And so that way, we'd be able to guarantee that, in fact, we'd have that ready for the spring for the kids.
And, again, you know, that's still only two areas that are fenced in for the 61 little guys that have And how many how many more kids can you fit in the existing classrooms?
So
with where we'd like to keep the max based on student need Yeah. And you guys know what I mean when I say that. You know, the special needs of the kids.
15 and 16 are perfect sizes for us. Anything more than that really puts a difficulty
on those classroom teachers to address the needs of all of those, you know, three, four, and five year olds.
And so that's what we're aiming for there. Obviously, it's could add three more kids?
We could. Existing. And so we could. And right now, we wouldn't take out of counters for them. Yeah. Right now, those are spots that obviously are there because we don't turn away handover kids. We currently have fifteen and sixteen in each room. Right. She's looking right at Yeah. I was saying there's three that are 15. Yes. So we could add one kid. Gotcha. Okay. I just wanted to make sure you weren't thinking. Yes. Yeah. So we wouldn't take any other Howard Towners right now. And we will evaluate current
>> students too. We will evaluate current families that may may qualify for a school readiness spot. Okay. It's not necessarily we're out recruiting. It doesn't have to be recruiting other kids. Could already be in our program, but they just were not in school readiness spot. Okay. That could be the case. Right. And their circumstances changed especially. Correct. Okay. That's why you have to analyze, and it's hard to say until you So you guys will keep us posted Absolutely.
>> Yes. So and then school readiness, I know Breeze on school readiness. You'll see the slots,
you know Yep. As they appear. We'll be very careful, obviously, because we don't wanna breach confidentiality
with if they say, oh, you have two that now file five for, but it's always gonna be.
So so that's the grants, and that is
the updates on the
the facilities. And then the rest, we'll get to when we get down to solar. Now did you say when the lights are gonna be fixed? Did you say when the are I didn't say when they're gonna be fixed. We have a quote here, and I've signed the quote. Okay.
But we have to we have to get it fixed. Okay. Alright. I couldn't I just wanna make sure if you had said that. Okay. Yeah. Then I'll touch base with Scott tomorrow. Okay then. Now with the other ones, you said things looked okay with with them? Yeah. There isn't anything in disarray with them. Okay.
Right. There isn't anything.
The fact that these are against the same
runway there,
I would have to say there must have been something. I'll talk to Scott about the why it happened. I haven't actually asked him to specify. I figured I'd do it the day they come to fix it where I can have a conversation and say Yeah. Like, they must be in the circuit or something. Right. Yeah. That's that's so it's not bulbs that went death. It's it's something that went well. Yes. Okay. Like, nothing fried the lights. The bells or something. Yes. Yep. Yeah. So because they're all the same location.
Yeah.
I'll do the breaker trip. That's fine.
Thank you.
Okay.
Next is
>> Yes. Alright. So I wanted to talk just a little bit.
In the past few years, those that have been here with me, one of the things that's come up every once in a while is just our work with Marlborough and Hebron and kind of
what that's looked like in the past, not not so much, and what it could look like. And so it's definitely been something that I have been actively working on. And so I wanted to share so currently, right now, we are in what they call an affinity group for Bookworms, our new reading curriculum that we're working with. And so what that looks like is at
we meet at EastCon once a month, and Marlborough and Andover have decided to join us, which is exciting.
And so a couple of teachers from each building,
their reading teacher,
administrators
come to that support group. There's also other districts
that are not close to us using bookwormsaswell.com.
And so it's been a nice opportunity, one, just to network and talk with each other in small teams.
But to kind of take it to the next step, we're going to we have upcoming PD, I believe. Don't quote me. It's January something ish. I think it's give
or take. It's a half day. And so what we're going to do is
our k two teachers are gonna go and visit
the way the schedule works nicely, they're gonna get to go observe a bookworms lesson in Hebron.
Marlborough, see if I get it right, will come to us for fourth grade.
He would split, you know, into two schools. It's a little tricky. They have a third grade. I won't bore you with all the logistics. But, essentially, we're going to be kind of moving about, and then the teachers will be able to meet in cohorts, grade level cohorts for that afternoon time, that one to three,
and
certainly digest what they've seen, but also have some really good discussions about what's going on in
the classrooms. We know just being a small school
and, of course, a stand alone school, they don't always get to have those deeper conversations with people outside of our building. So we're really excited about that. Teachers are really excited.
Hebron and Marlboro have been like,
wow. Yes. Let's do this. So that's been exciting. Marlboro has two new principals, so I think that's been nice. It's reinvigorated kind of the desire to connect. And Katie at Gilead has been great as well. So That's awesome. So that's exciting.
And then on the same side, we're not gonna forget our RAM friends. So
our four, five, six team, which, as you know, changes classrooms, so they all teach a little, four and five and six,
have been really we've been having a lot of talk about transition, about RAM, what that looks like
with our new curriculums, and then as we have been working in math, both ELA and math. So RAM has a new curriculum coordinator.
Mary Rose Mead. Did I get it right? Look at that. Mary Rose Mead. So she has been great. She actually came down to visit, talked with me. We talked a lot about curriculum,
and agreed that I could send my team up there. So they're actually gonna spend a half day
and go to classes, like go to a seventh grade ELA, go to a seventh grade math. And just, again,
it's hard to, like, get a sense of what that is because it's it's one thing to talk about it, but it's a big transition from sixth grade in an elementary school to seventh grade in a middle school.
Caitlin can probably affirm that she's living that life. And we wanna make sure it's not about I always say we're not trying to turn our fourth, fifth, and sixth graders into middle schoolers. Right? That's not the goal. We don't wanna over rush and say, you gotta prepare. You gotta prepare. It's more like our understanding, adult understanding of what the jumps look like so that we can fine tune, and and they should do the same. Right? And so we can all connect and tweak and make sure our our
transition is as seamless. So our four, five, six six team is really excited about that. That will we don't have a set date for that, but that will happen in the winter as well. And
sixth grade, of course, they always go, and and there's a lot of those tours and, you know, they come and talk about RAM, but we wanted to kinda take it that curriculum step. RAM is seeking new curriculum in math. They're starting that conversation, so that's been good too for us to be a part of so that if there's a chance of alignment,
why not, right, if that makes sense for everybody when it's looking that way. So
I thought that would be a good update just to share that I haven't in a while that we are actively working on those things. I still get a lot of feedback here
about value in connecting our sixth graders,
which I think I'm still I have not yet made as much progress as I'd like, but I'm still working on, whether it's a shared field trip, whether it's a
pen pal or a visit or just some assembly,
like, just little ways, again, that our sixth graders can connect before they enter RAM and have some familiar faces
from Hebron and Marlboro. Certainly, we get a lot of good feedback from families that when Andover gets there, they're able to acclimate and make friends. I'm not responding to a lack of that, but I think, again, for kids at this age, the more comfort, the better. Yeah. And just connecting a lot of them play sports, you know, in various
towns and and the way Ram runs. So that's something I'm still working on. I don't have solid plans yet, but it's conversations with those principals
for sure. Did they go up there and, like, shadow,
>> a kid for a day or or anything like that? At Ram? Yeah.
>> They Ram, we do a visit, and I know in the summer, they do open house. Right. They get their locker and everything. More. It's yes. It's so there kids that give the tours, but it's It's not like but you know what I mean? Like, if they could spend the day with with with the student and just see, I don't you know? Yeah. I know other things that have been suggested by parents but haven't been organized by the school system was to have, like,
like, a meet and greet or something like that at end of the year for, like, all of the incoming graders at, like Oh, sure. At, like, our lake or the lake at Marlborough or something like that that was not, like Yeah. At the school, but, like Yeah. How Get it. Sponsored. So we I've reached out to because I think they would be a fabulous coordinator of such things.
>> Yeah. But, again, that one is a work in progress. I'll be honest with you. I don't have as much buy in from all the other parties, but I, you know, I don't quit. I'm happy, though, that we have done
we've gotten a lot of buy in on curriculum and instruction, and so we're really, I think, starting to collaborate in a more That's a way that will just benefit teachers. So, yeah, so that's my update.
Any question? Do you have a professional development part two or just So that will be our next PD day. Is that January 17? That will be our plan. I don't I looked at the calendar. I don't actually think we had a PD day in between our last meeting. I don't think so. No. Yeah. I was like, wait a minute. So it'll be the January 17 one. And we have The the Rhode Island, the bookworms individuals.
Is that is Pat was that coming up, or is that is that before? That was before. Okay. Did I not report on that one? Was that I think it was That was in October. You said it was going to happen. It must have been right after that meeting. Okay. Yes. We did have it. It was. Oh, that's right. They were coming. Yes. Yeah. They came actually from Delaware.
Yes.
Ashley. And she was here for two days. She's fantastic. We did learning walks. So our teachers got to go up and down a grade level to see instruction and to debrief and reflect as teams.
And then the day two, she does more of that
PLC style where they're not with kiddos, but they're here talking, analyzing, learning. She'll come back in February
to do the same thing. The teachers who didn't get to learn to walk because they were being observed will swap,
And then kind of she's good about where are we, what do we need for that day too, what are our areas of,
you know, maybe stuckness or things like that. So she'll address that in February.
But teachers That's her bookworms. Which grades is that for? Yes. So we are in k five,
sixth grade.
She, the author,
is piloting in six eight, so we jumped on board because that's who we are. And so they just started.
Melissa and Lisa, who teach our Jessica and missus Hopkins teach sixth grade ELA,
and they are
piloting
the new bookworms for middle school. It's four novels, and it's all around identity. It's pretty cool. And so they have four different themes of identity, and
the first, like, week was all about, like, getting kids to think about who they are and their identity. They they really it's it's been good. And so they've started The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind as their first book,
but that isn't a true pilot. So
they're they're learning alongside, which is it's a it's a neat thing to be a part of, whereas k five, of course, is the more established curriculum.
Yeah. But they didn't wanna be left behind, so they were like, what what do we ask? Alright.
>> Do you have anything else? No. No. Anyone
have questions for Taylor?
I do not. Okay.
>> Next up is a financial report.
I see Terry's iPhone is on there still.
>> Maybe
going once Terry can hear us. Terry, can you hear us?
>> I respect your privacy. Siri
can hear us. Apparently, Siri can hear us.
>> I mean, I can ask to unmute if you want me to press it. I don't know how that really works. I don't know how that works either. I
don't like to press buttons. I don't know. Terry, can you hear us?
Is there Oh, is it Chad? Is that her?
No? No.
Unless she stepped away.
Do we wanna
>> So I actually have one thing that that goes with that. I'm gonna text her Okay. And tell her that
We're ready. Yep. Can you hear us?
But we had one more thing that just popped up with finance.
Okay. And so we had talked about the fact that since I was gonna be here, I would explain it to you guys anyways. So
there was
so she'll do our financials in just a second. So there was, a notification that we received from M and T, which this the story ends well. Spoiler alert. Okay? But,
there was a notification that we had received from the bank that there had been seven what are labeled as counterfeit checks
that had gone through the account for M and T. We just received this. We spoke with the woman yesterday.
They weren't actually counterfeit checks. What happens is and she says there is no business account that is immune to this. What happens is because
now in today's day and age, people can deposit things. I'm gonna show you a picture of it. People can deposit things into an ATM,
and all that's ever picked up is the account number. It actually never looks at the check itself to see. Was it a check that said and over anywhere?
Was it a check that had any of our signatures on it? Was it a check nope. And so it doesn't even look at if the account number was in sequence.
And so this is how sometimes businesses wind up. Now in our case, the money comes up and goes right back in.
I printed this here so that you guys can take a look at it. The money comes out and goes literally right back in because of the the
way we have our account set up so that that won't be an issue. So it comes out and goes right back in,
right away,
because it's set up so that our account is set up so that,
we have, like, some protection against that.
And
this is an example
of what one of those checks look like. I'll pass this around.
I mean, a company
I mean, you we look at it, and it looks like something that you may pretend off the Internet.
But the bank doesn't know that until it comes completely through the
ATM process.
And then immediately, the next business day, it looks at it and goes, oops.
And it self corrects for us. So what Terry and I did was we
met with our M and T specialist
via Zoom and said, okay. So we know that we're not gonna be on the hook for this, but and it's not anything to do with us on our end. But is there anything that you have to offer
that would help us to make sure that this doesn't happen again?
Because,
you know, even though we're not gonna be on the hook for it, like, we we don't like the idea of it being out there that there's, you know, an account number. So she said, yes.
We can switch,
it's it doesn't cost us anything in the end. What you wind up doing is switching the status of your account
to
what's called commercial,
and
they then take
it's best described as
it should cause an earnings credits.
So what they do is they look at your account, and they think about it like little tokens where they say, if your balance is $250,000,
your earnings credits at and they adjust this scale to be what it needs to be is,
you know, $200 or more. It's not money you ever see, so it's like fake monopoly money. But that earnings credit
is
an amount that you can utilize
toward fees.
And so by establishing your account with a fraud per check, an additional fraud protection,
what happens then is
there's this thing called this pay,
and there's another thing called positive pay. So what Terry would do is Terry would say, this week, I ran checks 1,900
to nineteen eighty as check numbers.
Terry would upload
to
our secure through M and T Bank. Mhmm. This is the check run that we did this week.
It goes from 1,900 to $19.80.
M and T would note that in there through BizPay, their positive pay. This is for businesses.
And any check that gets presented then that's out of the line of what we've told them, we've written out numbers for, gets denied.
Okay. It'll get denied.
We'll receive a notification.
And if we say, oops. We forgot we ran that one check, we have until 4PM that day to tell them, yes. In fact, that's ours. Otherwise, it gets denied.
And so this is as an additional
way for us to make sure that things
never happen. We weren't on the hook for this because of what we already have,
but what this allows is that additional level of
notification
because
But go ahead. No. No. No. I I want you to keep going. You're Yep. Keep going. Keep no. So so that's the first step is that one. The second step is that you can add that then,
that protection,
to ACH transfers.
Because if your business, your municipality is gonna get hit, it's always those online things. It's not that check, that physical check that got in the wrong hands.
It's somebody doing something online
and then
it catching up later on. And as you know, because we know that, unfortunately, the town had been hit once before and multiple other towns where it was done through ACH transfers. So we asked her. We said, while we're at it, we've never had a problem with ACH transfer.
But can we have the same kind of additional protection on an ACH transfer?
Because the way an ACH transfer works right now, we have the highest level of protection.
Cherry establishes a vendor, and we only have three. So, like, our insurance, SpringBrew.
Our insurance is, you know, $55,000
a month. So Terry establishes an ACH transfer for Spring Group.
And when Terry goes in, she sets everything up. But before she can actually stay
and transfer that money, they ask for a PIN number.
Because we're small, obviously,
agency here, where's our check and balance? Terry can't access the PIN number. The PIN number comes to me.
I get this thing that says PIN number. I have to give Terry that PIN number, and then the ACH transfer can occur.
And so
that level's proof of protection has always protected us. But what we've added with this new
positive pay and this new level of security
is the same thing with an ACH transfer.
If an ACH transfer is done,
she will receive notification.
So the bank will send notification and say, if this is not yours, you have till 4PM tonight. Otherwise, you know, the the But does that affect the ACH transfer that we get from the town? No. No. These are money coming out of our out. Okay. Money coming out of our town out of our account. And why would we do an ACH transfer?
There are certain vendors like the Sprint Group. That they only accept it. Not checked. Okay. Right. And so Teri has done a great job of limiting it. Mhmm. You can do it for almost any vendor. We opt to only do it when necessary.
And so we literally have three vendors that we use it for, and that's it. So only three times a month doing ACH transfers go out of our business office, which is fantastic. So did they say how that check got deposited into our account by an ATM? It didn't get deposited into our account. Pull it. They tried They pull it. They established a fake check. Okay. And and it's funny. I mean, they don't ever it's It's even saying, like, the right It says the Kenco company in Chattanooga, Tennessee. So these scammers, they she said,
almost every business will get hit at some point, and, thankfully, we had this set up so that we don't
And is that the only counterfeit check? You said that there were There were seven in one month. Seven in one month. Yeah. From this same kind of That
single one of them, y'all They're asked to the same person? No. They were all associated with the same ring,
but, no, they were not. So
>> So how did it go again? I'm I'm not following. So they tried to they tried to get a fake check? They they created
>> a fake check. Yep. The only thing on it that was a valid bit of information
was the checking account number. The routing That was it. On the bottom. The company was not there, the person to, the person from.
But because it goes into an ATM
and do you see, on what I handed you right there, Celeste? Yeah. You can see literally
what happens with us because we have that protection. Yeah. Money goes in, money goes out immediately. You see that? Yep. All seven times. Right. So there was never a time when our money was in danger. Right. But
Terry said, hey. I was in another district before where we had positive pay, and that would just you know, we're 100%
sure
now, but this will make us a 101 sure. So I said to Terry, set up the meeting. It's worth it. Right. And and with the two of us speaking to them, we said, there's no reason for us not to No. It's okay. So Yeah. So the added level of security is
in addition to the fact that, you know, we have that, the added level of security is the bank will now only release
the routing numb I mean, the check number batch that Terry has uploaded. Yes. I have that. Yeah. And that you said did you say that's on a weekly basis, monthly basis? Or When does check runs. And what how often is that? Usually every week, sometimes every two weeks.
Actually, sneak that back. Usually every two weeks Yeah. Because the other one's payroll.
Okay. But if Teri has to, for whatever reason, cut a check,
all she has to do is do what she normally would do, yes, and notify them. Had to run this check today for this number, and that would be released as well. So we've already upgraded to this positive pay then. Well, she's in the process of doing it. Okay. Yesterday, we said to them, absolutely, because it's of no cost to them. Yeah. No. No. No. It it makes sense. Right. So so it's fantastic.
>> So I have I have a similar thing set up for my business where it it's actually, like like,
we have an account, but then everything comes out of a separate account. It, like, it funnels the real account to the one that you're using to send stuff to so that it looks like that there's nothing in it. Got it. Plus all your other checks and balances. It it definitely makes sense. Yeah. So I mean, and we're lucky because I asked her when I was on the phone with our several businesses that they lose this kind of money, and she said yes. If they didn't have the initial protection that you guys had,
>> the money would have gone right back in.
And in our case, as you can see, it literally went back in on the next on the same day. So
just transit transaction out, and then it's two minutes a bit right back in. So,
so yes. So, you know, Terry, thank you.
Hopefully, you're back on now because Yes. I'm on. Yeah. Because, you know, I was comfortable before with it, but now I'm more comfortable because
I know that they will always notify us if any check out of the check run then gets presented. So Yeah. You know, if somebody could make up a check number, and if they make up a check number, it's it's at both work. Right. Even if it's through an ATM, it's not going through. So
so M T was very nice, though. They were wonderful. They were perfect to deal with. Okay.
>> Cheers. Okay. So just some added protections, and I'll be working with M and T to
to set up that
positive pay transfer file within the next week. Like I said, I've done it in other districts, so it's not anything that's new to me.
But I do think it's a good idea to for have the extra protection.
I'm not sure if all of you have had a chance to check the financials that were sent out last week.
I just wanted to call your attention to a couple more lines
line items that
that have
that have gone over budget by
the
other professional service boards, which is under object three forty.
It is at in the red at $33.81,
and that is due to the union negotiations
that we have this year.
So we have expended. That's our legal fees line
on page four of the detailed custom expenditure
report
by object.
And later on in the next couple of months, if you want me to move money around, I can, but I think it's important for you to see the overages instead of me just processing budget transfers automatically.
Any questions about that?
>> I just have a question on the on the summary one
under
repair and maintenance.
Okay.
Is that
like, that's overexpended?
Is that already, like, allocated from somewhere else, or do we know?
>> That's overexpended.
Yeah.
Yeah. Well,
we've had several,
as you know, several
new things come up in the last six months that have put us over budget on that line item.
That's one that's not a 100
>> Right. No. I understand. But now we're talking about fixing the lights outside, which is, like, another So
>> Yep. I'm just That's just gonna add to it.
It's gonna go up and up, unfortunately.
But I can I can assure you, I've been working on the projections
for the rest of the year,
and I don't see with with the grant offsets that we have, we we should have,
we will have the money to cover those overages? I don't want anybody to get nervous about that.
Okay. And Val and I are staying very much on top of
you know, I'm trying to do those revise those projections
every month or every couple of months. And I just worked on it the other day, and I I feel pretty comfortable
that we're still gonna be okay.
>> Okay.
I I personally appreciate you leaving them as overages because I think it I think it's helpful to
>> Well, the other thing I wanted to bring to your attention, though, too is the tech line
under object five thirty, the instructional technology licenses
and fees is over by $5,600,
and that is due to and I've noticed since I've been here almost two years that
the,
the cost of our licenses are have been gradually
increasing.
I know Taylor can attest to that along with Christina Fraser.
But the enroll with the enrollment increases
and the cost of licenses is, which is what we're purchasing our instructional technology based on,
that is why that line is going over. And when I'm building the budget for 2526,
I am take I am mostly I'm gonna tell you up front that these technology
lines are gonna need to be increased.
Not all of them, but but most of them.
So you'll see that in the I'm sure you'll I'm not I don't wanna speak for Val, but you'll probably see it in her presentation in January when we're talking
specifically
about next year's budget.
Are there any other
>> pardon? Next next to it, Terry, we already have an asterisk so that they can see that it's per it's because they're per student.
Yes.
Licenses.
>> Yes. Per student.
So does anybody have any other questions? Have I missed anything on this report that that you need answered?
Carrie, for
transportation
and electricity. Is that seasonality
differences?
>> Where are you look are you looking at the summary or at the breakdown?
>> On the summary on page one. On the summary on electric.
Just 41%
used?
>> Yeah. Well, 40 we're almost halfway through the fiscal year. So I'd I'd say 41,
42% is actually where we're supposed to be at.
>> Great. But, like, for diesel, if you look at that, it's like, oh, we haven't used any because Well, diesel diesel is billed to us from the town,
>> and I don't believe I've only received, like, one quarter's worth of diesel
invoices from the town.
Okay. So I'm sure I'll be getting the the second quarter
very soon. So
>> Eric, with electric when you asked if it's seasonal? I forgot that it was. Well, but it is also seasonal because you're right. With air conditioners, that's electric. So
during the cooler
months, we use the heat more, and in the warmer months, we use the electric. So you're right. It is seasonal. Yeah.
>> And then student transportation at 16% used. Is that is timing of bills? That's That's we've only had September
>> and October.
Okay.
So that only includes two months.
Two out of eight. I mean, two out of 10. So we've got a ways to go.
Okay.
Alrighty?
>> I do have one other financial related question for the two of you, if that's okay.
I don't know. I know on the town side, they're trying to transition using Webster Bank instead of M and T. Has that been anything that's been discussed with you guys for the school to transition as well or anything that you guys have thought about?
No. I have not heard that.
Okay.
>> And, honestly, I worked with Webster Bank in East Lyme, and,
I mean,
I don't know. I I don't think
>> I'm not sure how how much better they are than M and T. Just I just know I just know that it's ongoing for the town, so I I didn't someone had approached
you guys about it at all. We haven't
been asked to change over to Webster.
No.
Okay.
Any
>> other questions on the financial reports or even on the
on the fraudulent
checks
or anything like that?
No. I don't have anything, Terry. Thank you.
Thank you. Okay. Thank you, everybody.
>> Next
up is liaison reports and updates.
School readiness,
where you do have an update for school readiness.
Meeting is not until January,
so there's not been one since the last report out.
PTA?
>> We had our holiday breakfast on Saturday, which went very well.
The part for the playground is in. It was
hopefully gonna get installed
this week, but the installer and his crew was unable to do it this week. So still working on getting that completed.
Anything else upcoming for VTA? We
>> have
yes, we have a restaurant
night coming up in January,
and then we are going to be having a pasta dinner in February.
And the annual
And the annual Wolfpack game, which is on February 22.
Yes. Thank you.
So, yes, we do have a couple things coming up this winter. Yep.
Okay.
>> And then
the triboard meeting. So most of you guys were there. I really appreciate everyone
coming and
taking part in that.
I think in terms of major update from that is really just that it was it was a good opportunity to sit down with the people on the other boards in our towns
and have some real conversation about how we move forward.
I think, at least for myself, I feel pretty positive coming out of that, that I think we're in a better place and have better relationships with the Board of Finance and the Board of Selectmen than we did two or three years ago.
So I think I can
personally say I only hope that it continues.
The hope is to plan for
another triboard meeting
a bit more informally
in the spring slash early summertime.
I don't know if anyone else has comments or suggestions or questions about
that.
Definitely would be open to feedback or recommendations
>> that you guys may have. I was gonna ask so it it gets into the also the town meetings.
I think the next step with you as chair is to go to the board of finance meeting next week
to ask them
to do what
we've been talking about, which is
to ask them to allow us to put whatever money after the audit would be into that capital account. Yep. But you need to go and ask that of the board of finance. Yep. And their meeting is next week. I know. Yeah.
I know. So that's all I was gonna ask. Yeah.
Just following up on the board meeting.
>> Yeah. No. I think it I think it went well.
I did reach out to Jeff Maguire just because I know
we had talked about in the tribe board meeting just getting
a list to to them of of our need our top three needs, which is what, you know, I had mentioned to him in the meeting.
And he basically said just to get
you know, identify the needs and then to just kinda give a range of what we think it would cost and just to email that to Eric.
So
that's what he said that would be helpful. So when they are starting to
put together their budget, they have that range of
of information on how much it's gonna cost.
>> So
the MEP that we have from
Right. The bathroom project, I that's a different item on agenda. Right. Right. We'll talk about it when we get down there. Yep. Yep.
Does anyone else have any comments or recommendations?
>> Or He's a he'll be meeting next Thursday. Uh-huh. And we're going to be addressing
>> supposedly a proposal from the fire commission that we don't yet have.
Okay. You said next Thursday? Yes. We
always make the third Thursday of the month. Okay.
And then
did anyone have feedback from town meetings
>> within the past month? Yeah. That that was that was me. I don't
Okay. I think I had the November meeting, so,
I'll just quickly go over. It's a very short list.
So these are the November meetings for board of finance, board of selectmen.
I know they both addressed the triboard meeting, so I won't really talk about that because I know, you know, we've we've kind of already covered that with the previous conversation. But outside of that, the board of finance,
two things that came up that applied to the board of ed, just a little conversation about the AES Capital Fund
and the amount that was thrown out there was $212,000,
and they had a discussion about about that that that that account.
And then the other discussion board of finance
had was about having charter changes and the effect that that was having on the budget season, and the board of education was, in fact, mentioned in that. So
that was board of finance. And board selectman,
Again, outside of the joint meeting conversation,
they, touched on two items for, board of education. It was the, update they gave regarding,
the fans for the ASGym,
And,
they had a conversation about,
the solar,
installation
process project,
for for AES and,
talked about layout of of the panels on the roof and and things of that nature. So
as far as those two meetings, that that's kinda like a little summary of of what was was taking place there.
>> Thank you.
And then the other thing that we have on here
is the STIF account.
So I can tell you guys in regards to right. We were
talking about slash we were asked
if the board of education's account could be its own stiff account or if we could create a stiff account.
And then the feedback that Celeste have gotten from other chairpersons was that no one else had that, but that it is completely possible if we wanted it to be.
I also had reached out to the
finance person for the town. Terry was cc'd on those emails as well in terms of the AES Capital account and where it exists. Exists.
It exists in several different places, so it's not all in one bank account.
It's it's
still like that
8 what is it? 8900
in the M and T account?
in the M and T account,
which they are looking to close
and transfer the money that's in this old account
into
the town side
general
fund under the umbrella of AES Capital Fund. So
in terms of in terms of the town side, like, physical bank accounts, they used to have, I don't know how many, like, 30 something crazy different bank accounts, and they've been slowly trying to close them down Mhmm. And just have different line items within
the same fund on their registrar, but the money existing
in a SIP account so that it's earning.
There was a significant conversation at the board of finance meeting,
I think, because when I asked these questions, like, Mark and Joanne were both cc'd on those. So they were trying to ask clarifying questions as well
about the money that's earned in the funds,
like, where they're laid out in the town registrar.
Does interest earned, does it go back into that specific fund, or does it go to the town's general fund? Okay. And there seem to be some confusion
and or disagreement
among the board of finance members and among our town manager as to what exactly
is currently happening.
I haven't gotten a clear answer
from the town treasurer in regards to that.
I think based on what Eric said that currently,
any of the money that's generated in interest earned from the town's stiff account just goes into the town's general fund. It doesn't get, like, deposited, reflected into
proportionately
from the
Right. Line item that it came from. Yep.
The board of finance was talking about
several of them were like, oh, we think that it should go into the line item it came from. That makes sense. Right? Like, the money should earn money for itself. And
other people
disagreed or didn't say anything.
And our town manager's comment was that
the board of finance could do that if they wanted to to change it so that it is that way. But it would just mean that when the town funded certain funds, they would fund them less because those funds are earning more interest.
Okay. So kind of in, like, a cyclical discussion,
it may not actually
matter
in terms of, like, how much money there actually is in each fund at the end of the day.
It's just gonna get there
Eventual. Yeah. In a in a slightly different way, potentially. Okay. Right? So either the town's gonna fund it in their budget. Right. Or it's gonna earn some money that goes back into it. Okay.
I realize that's really long winded.
Yeah. Trying to get back to the point that originally you were asked to look into a STEP account,
I think specifically because they wanted
the 2% nonlapsing account to somehow be earning more money than what it is currently doing.
>> Yes. Well,
no. So
if I just give me a second. I'll pull up my notes. Yeah.
Basically, they the original plan was to take the the money that's given to us every month, right, through the you know, the town gives us an ACH transfer every month of of let's again, just argument just for
just an example,
we get $10,000
every month from the town.
And the the proposal was we take that $10,000,
we put it in a stiff account,
and it's earning money.
And then, again, it's very fluid because it it's not like you it's not like,
you invest it and it's locked there for six months. Like, you could take money out. But I didn't think that was such a good idea because of just we're writing checks and it's back and forth. So then
I I
thought of, well, what if we
took some of our 2% non lapsing money and put it into a SNIP account?
And,
because, again, we don't really touch that money, so it's not a lot of back and forth.
And
when I talked with the auditor,
he said that
he said that that that would be good,
but the purpose of the money earned in the stiff account
would go then into to help fund the AES capital improvement account. That was the whole point of of it is to kind of make more money for for that account.
And then the 2%, we we could do that. We could take some of the 2%, put it in a stiff,
and then either we could keep the money or we could then
give it back to we could give it to the town to put in that account.
So that's
that was the the discussion about the the SIP account.
>> So currently, our 2% nonlapsing account is a separate bank account or it's a separate fund?
Correct. Yep. Yes. Completely, or is it a line item within the accounts fund? It's a completely separate no?
Oh. A line item? It's a line item within the town's fund. Okay.
So currently,
I believe,
and I would need to go back and clarify with the Board of Finance again because, obviously, they were confused about it as well. Right. That any interest that that fund is currently earning is going into the town's general fund just like every other
account on the town side. Got it. Does that make sense? That makes sense? Yeah. Okay.
Yep.
Then why would we do it?
>> I don't unless
I think so I don't and, honestly, I don't really think it's our decision at this point. Right? I feel like that's a town decision. That's a board of finance decision if they want to have each fund
get its in like, get the money that it's earning in interest. They don't need to vote.
Don't want to make this choice.
We
decide.
>> Right. But it they seemed they seemed unclear about what any of those funds were currently being done. The legislation that's here. You guys are the board that decides money in and money out. So if you wanna do that, that's fine. The only logistics that has to happen is that you have the votes to do that. Okay. Because you guys
oversight
on that account. Remember the legislation that's the language that changed this year that said you no longer had to go to the board of finance or permission? Yes.
That's because you guys are the the oversight of that regardless of where that account lies.
So it's not a problem if everybody says, sure. That's great. Let them do that. You just have to go to do that and to to say,
this is okay
for you to do because they don't spend that money. Right. They are the custodians of the money. You don't spend that money. You have all of the decision making on that. Okay. So as a board, if you decide that that's what you'd like to do is to say, go ahead. Throw it in there, and you can keep the interest on it. You just have to tell them
>> that that's what you're going for. But we can also say go ahead and throw it in there. Into the capital fund. Into the capital. Correct. Correct.
>> I believe you have to get permission from the board of finance for that because there'd be additional revenue
on your money. Yes. Right. You would have to go to the Board of Finance and say
that extra because then that's, like I don't wanna use the word inappropriate,
but it's additional money that you guys have are burned on that. So you would have to talk to the board of finance and say, it's okay with us. Right. But this is what we'd like you to do with them. Right. So it's just logistics.
>> It's just logistics.
It's logistics, but it's also then, like, the the town needs to be keeping track of which funds are actually earning
>> My understanding one interest. And then the SNF account was
>> the conglomeration
of everything into one account Yes. And therefore, the significant amount of interest it could earn. Yes. So that
the only way to do that would be to put it in,
say, you've gotta now keep track of what our portion of that was and give us back the interest out of that,
>> which
probably is feasible. That makes sense, buddy. It does. I mean, they're already keeping track of that within the town registrar even though the money exists in a different place.
>> Right.
On the 2% that you mentioned in that account,
I think it'd be prudent for us to keep
if we decide to
put that money in
a stiff fund,
that that interest stays in the 2% because
of inflationary concerns.
If we ever need that, that that that interest is
goes back into that 2% account as opposed to other
It's just to the capital fund. Yes.
>> The difference between those two accounts, and I'm just giving you a fact. I'm not giving you an opinion here at all, is to remember that a 2% nonlapsing account for board of education,
you guys have a myriad of things, educational purposes,
that you can use that fund for. You can use it for an out placement. You can use it for any educational expense associated with 35 School Road or any other expense associated with 35 School Road. You do not have that luxury nor does the town have that luxury on,
Capital Account. Mhmm. So that is always the dilemma there is
and that's why you're allowed to put 2% of them. That's always the dilemma. And, Eric, you bring up a very good point. Mhmm. You know, maybe you guys should consider keeping that for a while anyways till you get your feet wet a little bit more with it in knowing,
are we gonna use it in the the near future? Because if you're not gonna use it in the near future and it's there and it's earning, there you go. But that's a conversation that you have with the Florida Finance then Yeah. About that. And as Katie mentioned early
earlier, the only other issue right now is that capital account, all of that money is not currently in one account. No. So that has to be established first
where that two twelve maintains itself in one account, and then you guys would make the decision as to what you wanna do. Do you want a STIP account? If you do want a STIP account, is the interest on it gonna go into that other?
>> And the idea of being with the attorney to the capital account at two twelve,
that the authority to draw on that would be with the approval
of the board of education
and the board of finance? We have to ask the board of finance. We have to ask the board. Yes. Okay. Yep.
I just wanna understand that.
>> After a capital improvement
plan has been
That's perfect. Been established. Okay. Right. Right.
I think to summarize. Right? Because we can't we didn't put an action item for anything to do with this for tonight.
But to summarize, so we as a board need to think about
if we wanna ask for the 2% nonlapsing
to go into
a STEP account and for it to keep the interest that it's earning within its account
or
to not
put it in a STEF account, leave it where it is Yep. Or
to put it in a STEF account and have the interest that it earns go into the AES Capital fund. Correct.
Those would be, like, our three Mhmm. Yep. Options. Yep.
And then the other part of that discussion is,
can we ask the town, right, when we ask the board of finance for the money that is in the AES capital fund
to go into the SIP account and for when it earns money or its interest money to go back into its fund instead of into the town's general fund? Correct.
We can ask them, but that's that account is on their Right. Like, we don't have control of it. Right.
Yep.
So
I can talk to board of finance about it at their meeting.
Terms of us voting on something, we would need to wait until next month. Mhmm. Is everyone comfortable if we put that Yes.
On the agenda for next month?
Do you guys have questions
or other comments about No. You said confusion of Stiff? No. But you no. You summarized it
>> well. You know, those are our options.
And just to reiterate, you know, a stiff account, again, it's when you put money in, it's not locked there for six months. Right? Like, if you're, you know, like a CD or something like that. So if, for example, we invested $5,000
of our 2% non lapsing and if, heaven forbid something happened and we needed to take it out, you can take it out. So just just for clarification. It's not like a hidden Correct. You can take it in. Or Exactly. It's not like, nope. That's sorry. That $5 is there for six months. Nope. You you can you can deposit it. You can take it out. It's it's very fluid.
Anyone have any other comments on it?
No? No.
Okay.
Next up is the bathroom project.
>> So you guys all still had
a copy of
what you
had from two or three meetings ago when Fassin came,
and you also had received the other
prior to that. The one before. Yeah. The one from the company before. Yep. And so You're you're referencing the the one from Fuss and O'Neil from January from July 17. Right? Okay. Alright. Yep. Correct. Yep. Yep.
So at this point, know it was mentioned during the
the meeting that you guys had a week ago. So at this point, there still has been no decision from the board
for you to figure out what your next step is
in terms of
whether or not you would sign with Boston O'Neil
or you would continue to seek out other options.
Part of that was that authorization to proceed, and you couldn't make it clear. So that that you guys will have that in there. So then just to recall
the difference between them.
Boston O'Meal was an umbrella. It was an umbrella of services to get you all the way through to the actual
renovation itself with that price tag that was in there. And then What did I do with the price of? Yep. And then the renovation itself,
this got you to to the start of construction Yeah. Breaking ground. And then that would be something that you'd be working on with
Forty eight. Fuss and O'Neil. Forty eight. Yep. With Fuss and O'Neil for what that would look like.
You'd have a subcommittee
for what that would look like
and choosing,
you know, the contractors through them and,
you know,
everything nuts to bolts for that. And they're covering compliance in terms of being full building and That what their specialty was. That's why I said umbrella. Right. And so remember that forty eight had the four phases there
altogether.
That phase one, which was the SD.
For those of you who don't remember, I'll go back. That SD was the schematic design,
and the thing that set them apart
from the,
shorter version of what we had received prior to that was the schematic design was gonna include a conceptual layout,
and it was going to make sure that everything that was needed for appointments was gonna be there as well. The second phase,
what which was the CD, the contract documents,
it was much more specific,
and it addressed all your ADA requirements, which the first one that we had received through the person from the town made it very clear that they were not going to be able to assist us with ADA compliance as well as school related things and state related school related things.
They also as part of this, the contract submission would include permit level drawings
for architectural and plumbing systems, and those were things that were going to be needed
for the permit process and through. So they were they were doing everything there.
Phase three was the bidding process.
So,
that, you know, pre bidding conference and the RFI, the request for information.
And then the CA phase four, which was the construction administration,
they were gonna review,
all submittals in shop coordination, the drawings by the general contractor,
and answer all the questions. So they would be the one that would, address those things. They're the experts.
And they were also gonna provide,
construction inspections.
So,
if you remember, they did
come to one of the meetings. So you could actually, if somebody wasn't here, you could review it from that meeting. I'll give you the date I was here. That they oh, you were. Okay. Great. Yeah. So that was it was Elizabeth Landry that was here. So I I guess you guys are kinda still at the same point there where you have to decide. What what was the one from the town that didn't include that? Do you remember what the There was, like, some of those It was, like, 15 and change.
And that
was not fully inclusive, though. Yes.
So most importantly, that includes our.
Understood.
>> I I sent you. I just When we had talked about this in June, I thought our plan was to get at least two Cokes
personally.
>> Yeah. It doesn't seem like we did that. Or Well, because there was we were a stag stagnant there. We had two companies that we called.
There was another quote. There was another person that came in.
I
his first name is escaping me right now, but I'll get that for you. I had provided that at that meeting, which I can resend to you.
But that one was the kind of in between. There was this one fully inclusive. There was his,
and then there was
the the third one that got I feel like I haven't seen that third one. Yep. I I will send that up to you again.
But that one, again, would have required,
additional
support. So you had the full umbrella, and then you had two that were partials.
It would have required something further. So that's kinda where you guys are there is is figuring out where where to where to go from there.
>> You know? So so I will say, right, it was made pretty clear at the Triboard meeting. If we if we would, like, help trying to get this, like,
kicked down the road so that it actually becomes a reality, we need to make a decision.
We need to move forward or, like, the amount the rest of the money that were that is needed for this project to happen
is is not going to
be put into any budget for this upcoming year. No. I I agree. We've wasted too much time. I I
don't really I just feel like we're we're talking about two quotes, and I feel like we had asked for another one. That's why
I don't remember seeing the other one.
I don't remember seeing it either.
That being said, I guess I don't know. Do do you guys have opinions on what you'd like to do with what we have right now?
>> So the one so the one from Fuss and O'Neil and I just sent it to you, Eric. I didn't I I looked on the email. I think it was before you came on. So you have it now from Fuss and O'Neil. So that one is 48,600.
The one from Aztec, which is the town, is about five and like, about 15,000.
And
I I think if I remember correctly,
in the tribe board meeting,
again, this is one of the things that, you know, they're looking for is, you know, again, to get this information. Yes.
Because it looked it
it sounds like they would you know, the town is willing to help us with this, you know, you know, to pay for it.
So
and, again, like Jeff had said, it's just a matter of kinda giving him the information, and then we can you know, they they can kinda go from there. So
>> So do you do you have an opinion on, like I mean, you know moving forward?
>> I mean, know, Fuss and O'Neil did a great job. I mean, I know she came to our meeting. You know, I read through this. It's definitely a lot more comprehensive than, you know, than as Aztec. But I know with Aztec,
you know, it it would have been a lot they would have farmed out a lot of a lot of the work.
So that's not to say that 15 we're not looking at 48,015.
>> You know what I mean? So No. They probably it probably would have ended up Exactly. Close to the same. Exactly.
>> You know, I think at this point, we need to we need to make a decision because we've got bathrooms that don't work. So,
>> you know, we need to pull the trigger on that. Step is that we need to sign the MEP to forward. I was gonna make a motion, and we need to have the board approval claim that we go with us and O'Neil's Yeah. Proposal. That's where it's gonna be too. So Yeah.
Shannon would like to make a motion to move forward with us and O'Neil's proposal. Yep. Does anyone have further discussion,
or does someone wanna second the discussion? Okay. I'm gonna give it to Eric.
Any further discussion?
I don't have any further discussion. Yeah.
I'm good.
>> Okay.
So if there's no further discussion, then I would say that we call a vote.
Again, it was to move forward with Boss and O'Neill's proposal
for the MEP. Yeah.
All in favor? Aye.
Aye. Aye.
Anyone opposed?
Okay. So motion passes, seven zero zero.
>> And do you want me to send this to to
>> Jeff or Eric, Caitlin? We have to sign something on it, don't we? Or you have to sign it?
>> Yes. It does need to be sent. Yeah. Okay. Alright. Yeah. When when you sign it, just let just send it to me, then I can send it to Jeff or Eric and
let them see it. They haven't seen it at all yet? No. Not to my knowledge. No. Nope.
>> Alright. Okay. Now what happens is this volume and say Yeah.
It goes there, and it dies there.
Dies where? At the
town
administrator's
office.
The full finance.
Yeah.
>> I I mean, I guess, hypothetically, if we wanna go down that road, then I bet I should I don't think it does that. I don't think anything's gonna It's the bill finance. Yeah. It's it's they're just looking for how much things are gonna cost. So I I don't think that's they're gonna
say no. It's just a matter of getting them the information so they can present it. So Yeah. And
>> Joanne had sent an email with Right. A document that shows, like,
very basically, like, what project is, what the cost is, how like
but the only way that, you know, now that we voted on it, that this gets put into the budget for this coming year is by Right. Taking this step. Exactly.
Yep.
Okay.
The next item on the agenda is the solar project.
>> Okay. So there is an update here. I'm gonna pass this around to you so it's easy for you
to
kinda see what I'm talking about. So our roof
is and you've seen this picture before. You saw this picture when I gave you the dates
of the roof. Do you remember that piece of paper that had the dates Yep. Of the roof? So this is the same schematic
as that one.
It simply has numbers on the top of it. Here's the schematic that we had looked at last time. Remember this one? Yeah. Mhmm. This actually lines right up to it. So if you're looking, Eric, can you see that from there? Yeah. Okay. Yep. Yep. So it actually lines right up to it. It's the same exact schematic.
And the numbers on the top are exactly the same as well. So I can refer to the number, and you can see.
So, like, we had talked about the fact that a couple of meetings, like, where where we go from here now.
We knew that they had done the initial
multiple inspections
of the roof
when we put that application in for that project in the first place. And remember, we didn't get it till the third time, so
time's a charm.
But, anyways, so if you look at this,
and you look at the numbers that are on there,
the only two areas that need to be based on the the,
work that had been done and the, dates of
the
upgrades to the roof are two and seven.
So
see where 2 and seven are? Yes. Two are right above, like, where preschool is, where our preschools are down here,
and 7
is the main office area on over to that next section there, the old roof.
Okay? And so those are the two that they need to have
the more structural information on, and you're not gonna get that structural information
from the top of the roof outside. Mhmm. They got the initial information they needed from the outside,
but the information that they need from the structure
have to come from one more inspection.
So what they usually do is they do an on-site structural review with an engineer.
They will take care of that. That's we're not getting charged for that. That,
person is going to come,
and the engineer's gonna come. And what they will be looking at really is two and seven, but there's no way to see from the roof side there the inside of the building to make sure. So the next step would be that they come in and they remove a small section on the inside
where the beam is, a small section of the ceiling so that they can take a peek at those structural beams. Mhmm. And they look at how it's supporting the roof, and the engineer can tell everything they need to know. And then they immediately, on the same visit,
take the little section that they had to open to look, and they fix it right away. So we have absolutely no,
hole in the ceiling as a result of that, and they're minor.
They're small that they're gonna fix right away there.
So,
they would repeat it they would, you know, immediately fix that. And that will that'll let them see exactly what they need to see that they haven't been able to see kind of looking at the guts, the inside Mhmm. Of it. And then provided
that inspection is okay, then they're ready to move forward.
Celeste had already signed everything that needed to be signed for us to get to this point. So once they deemed that okay,
then we move into and we had gone to,
a meeting with Planning and Zoning. Yep. And Planning and Zoning had let us know that, you know, we were fine, fine, fine all the way up to this point. Should this structural
look, this peak turn out okay, then they're gonna get to that point then where they would wind up working with,
Town Hall to make sure they can get their permits to to start the installation. So this is, like, the last step, so that's good.
And they're gonna do that,
this, over Christmas break. Oh. Because they just needed it to be a day when we knew everyone was gonna be in the building, and we have custodians that are here still the week of Christmas.
And so we'll know after Christmas break,
if we passed.
And if we do and those are the only two sections that they need to look at to find out is two and seven. Two and seven. Okay. What's the concern with two? That's part the concern.
It is they can't see from the top of the roof what they need to see for the structural beams. Structural beams. Right. So anything else,
they were fine with gathering the information.
Those are just the two sections that they need further information. They need to look. They need their engineer to look at those structural beams. And who does that? Who who comes out for that? Is that Ryan. The one who's on here. Ryan will yep. The GreenSky's guy that's talked to you guys a couple of times. Yep. He will come out with an engineer in front of engineer. And that takes, like, couple weeks? No. Christmas
>> break. Next week. One day during the Christmas break. Right. Yes. In the next couple of weeks. In a couple weeks. Yeah. In the next couple of weeks. Yep. They're gonna take the whole roof apart. Yep. It's gonna be awesome. So you can keep that beautiful picture
>> because that will let you know. And then they send that interconnection
paperwork
in
that goes obviously then through Eversource.
Did they already do the interconnection paperwork?
They did all of it except the last
>> piece, and that was what So Eversource already approved the intervention or no?
>> The step one is approved.
Now it goes to the Connecticut, whatever. Hold on. I have that claim.
So that's just signs that.
It goes to the higher ups at Eversource
in Berlin. Yeah.
>> So just so Yeah. Yeah. Only because I personally went through this for my house, like So very recently. I know it's a little different. Is because It's nonresidential. Yeah.
>> I just know that the interconnection part with Eversource can take Nope. That first part was done. Okay. This is the we have to prove that because you don't have,
you know, a mortgage statement Yeah. That, in fact, this has been approved. Okay. So that's it. Okay. And does does the board of selectmen or someone else have to sign that? Nope. So that's the reason. Okay. Yep. So
and we did question. We did ask them. We said, does the board chair sign this and rates next? Yes. Okay. So
Great.
But then once that one's done, we'll turn it over to them because then they work Green Skies would work with getting permits on the downside. Yeah. Awesome. Okay.
>> Okay. And then the next thing on the budget sorry. On on the agenda is to talk about the
twenty twenty five, twenty twenty six budget schedule.
Mike?
I
>> don't know. Mike, are you there? I'm I'm here. Sorry. I had I had a had an issue hitting my mute button, so I apologize. Okay.
So
I know you guys last time had asked just for some possible ideas,
you know, about
how we could handle the upcoming budget season. And,
just had, like, two
two kind of simple thoughts.
So
I know in talking with Val,
you know, we kinda pinpointed,
you know, two groups. I think I think, when we talk about trying to relay information
to,
the seniors, kind of what what has
worked in the past is making sure we do some type of, you know, presentation that Val handles,
you know, at one of the the senior events, senior luncheons. And I think that's something that, you know, I'm talking with Val that that we should obviously continue.
The the other thought was, you know, another big segment of of the population, I think, is is the parent parent community.
So I think this would be something new that we haven't necessarily done in the past.
So the thoughts were that we put together some type of
budget night for parents,
and we invite them into the school.
And we give a presentation specific to,
you know, what parents would be interested in because, obviously, I think the questions that parents have about the budget are gonna be somewhat different than maybe some of the senior members of our community might have
in regards to that. So, you know, we we can put that parent meeting, I'm sure, you know, figure out a Zoom option or do, like, a separate Zoom session for that just to make sure people who can get there physically
could also get access to the information. But
I think, like, just thinking about those two segments of the community, now we don't wanna limit it to them, but, you know, I I think the the parent night might be a nice new fresh idea
that we could offer,
parents and really give them specific
useful information about the budget season.
And then I guess the only other thing that I would comment on is I know we had done those Zoom meetings in the past, and I'd just say I I would be eager to hear people's opinions on how useful
those
separate Zoom meetings are, and
is that something we wanna continue to
to do,
to the extent that we did, you know, in prior years?
>> You wanna go Yeah. Around one by one and people can
>> Given the lack of attendance,
I absolutely don't think we should do,
maybe any, but certainly not six.
And just really quickly with a comment, I
used to go to the senior luncheon after the budget that had been approved by the board of education
to make them feel special and actually make a budget presentation if you're able to do that.
>> Probably if it is in the election. Or if it is on Tuesdays, then I can do it. They actually really enjoy it because Mike's right. That's a really good segment of the population. The questions they ask are different than what parents ask. They don't wanna get into the minutiae usually of, you know, how many children are in this class and what's the curriculum for that It's different questions. There's different questions that they have. I remember it was actually Julia Haverhill. I'll never forget it. She said I had slides
and just a few, like, four. And she was like, thank you. That was so easy for us to understand because this is what we're interested in. Not that. So I remember that worked out really well.
What's the last?
>> I think they're helpful. I know nobody attends them, but that doesn't mean that people don't go back and watch them.
Their Zoom,
we're there for all of a half hour.
I think it's helpful to have it,
Again, just because people don't necessarily attend it in real time doesn't mean that they don't go back and watch it.
So
I I my
vote or my opinion would be that we still do it. I think it's helpful for us as a board
to have it kind of broken down into sections.
I agree. It's frustrating when we're there and nobody else is there, but however, it is informational for us.
And,
you know, people it is recorded.
People can go back and certainly watch it.
So my my vote
would would be that that we continue to to do them.
>> Brie? Yeah. I mean, I personally, I found them helpful,
and it allowed us to ask questions Right.
And and make suggestions.
So I
don't if we don't need if we want to, like, cut
the number or consolidate sections or
or even
have a preread to the board
that allows us to prepare and have just one. I'm open to that, but I do think there needs to be something.
And then the other thing I wanted to mention is one of the things that we had talked about at the CAVE conference,
doing something different is maybe having a student advocate for the budget that talked
at some of these meetings
because they are who we're doing this for and who better to speak to the needs of the school.
>> I would also favor consolidation.
Two or three meetings seems appropriate,
for this budget development.
I like the student advocate ideal idea.
My concern would just be how
I don't wanna say using the child.
I would just add some caution around that, so we have to think strategically of how we wanna do that.
One thing I'd like us to consider is,
and I've seen this at the CAED conference this past year
is,
student excuse me. School district newsletters that either go out that are as part of mailings,
or if we can do something different, whether they are part of whether they're being sent home by students about,
just a a two page flyer. Here's the budget.
Here's why risk or here potentially, here's what we're,
increasing,
what we're gonna spend that increase on.
Here is our enrollment projection of why we need additional
funds.
Here is how
we've
our budget increases versus surrounding communities
to show comparatives.
You can even look at class class sizes in there as well. So there's a lot of different avenues.
I have a couple that I collected from the conference that we could use as a a baseline to build upon, and I'd love to take that on.
Eric?
>> I I benefited a lot from when you did the first one or two
presentation,
and we do it online, and people could go back and access it.
But beyond that now, I think,
for myself,
I feel pretty confident in what you're gonna need and why you're gonna need it and what you're gonna do with it. They can't they can't hear us again.
>> Which I think it's specifically the men's, the tone of your voice. I
>> don't know why. I I don't think that an elementary school aged child
is a real good
thing to have a student advocate. If you have a high school student
who's turning 18 or 17 and they're right at the cusp of
graduating and becoming a taxpayer,
I think that that's okay. But when you're in an elementary school
and your oldest child student is, what, 12 years old? 12 years 12. And I don't think using a child for that is a great idea.
I
think we could I think there's a balance between too much and not enough,
But it is also gonna be a balance of where you go with it.
The senior citizens are a very important part.
I'm not saying that because I'm a keezer. I'm
saying that because you need your support.
They have to see value
in this
what we do here.
They have to see value in the employees,
the teachers.
They have to feel see value in the
staff.
And I think that that that's one place you really need to go and work and help the baby. The senior citizens,
you have many options for that.
And not to just get up and
give a presentation to them, but to get up and be go to lunch with them
and talk to them,
sit with them,
and get a feel for who they are and what they are looking for in terms of this portion of their time their time.
You you the school community is gonna be, I would think, an easy
group to convince and support your budget.
I think the school community knows. I mean, I knew when my daughter went to Walker Elementary School,
I did not wanna see class sizes of twenty six and twenty seven.
You know? And I've heard people say about Andover.
This they said it to me. This is a district you die for
because the class sizes
and the quality of the education
is phenomenal.
This is the crown jewel of Andover.
And I think this is what makes your property values go up. It is what makes people wanna come to this town. Mhmm. It's what makes people wait online for a contract on a house that's for sale. Mhmm.
I think that that's what you really gotta look at it from
not sitting here, but you gotta go out and look down on this
and see what they're doing.
But I think if you you cover the senior citizen group and you cover your school community,
you've got it you got most of it landed.
>> We also do have
the presentation at a board of ed meeting Right. As well as so that would be a third. So seniors, family,
the presentation at the board of ed meeting, and we do a presentation for the board of finance. Mhmm. There you go. So it's on video to watch
for the board of ed. It's on video to watch for the board of finance.
We could always videotape the night that we have for families. That would be three
opportunities.
And maybe, you know, to Eric's point, maybe this year, we could start off with just putting highlights
in written form
and
sending that out.
I know we don't do a board of education newsletter here. We just do a school newsletter, but I have templates. We do board of education. My other district, they do their own three times a year. Mhmm. So we could always start that this year where that would be, you know, a newsletter that would have that.
So I think that there's plenty of opportunities in everything that everybody's saying to have it on video. I know Celeste likes the multiple videos. There would be multiple videos. There would be the board of ed. There would be the board of finance. There would be the family.
So that is multiple opportunities.
>> I feel like the other part of it too is, like, we just have the triboard meeting, and, like, both Eric and Val talked about, like, where they thought major expenditures were going to like like, we're increasing communication
amongst Mhmm. Right, the three boards in our town
so that the other people, specifically the board of finance that needs to
see our budget. Like,
it's a much shorter timeline than what it used to be. So just so that you guys are aware in terms of figuring that out, their first budget workshop
is February 3
is what I wrote down from the
February 15 is when they February 15 is when our budget is due to them. Okay. So
in terms of, you know, if you look at a timeline for between now and then,
That's not actually that much time because our February meeting is February 12. Right. So we would have to approve the budget
on February 12 for it to go to them by the fifteenth.
So we have pretty much one, two,
seven.
Yeah. Eight eight weeks between now and then Okay. Which include,
you know, two weeks of holidays.
So I guess what I'm hearing from everyone, some people like the kind of review. Some people think it's
maybe too much.
Could we reach some sort of, like, compromise in the middle of those
where everyone feels informed but not overly informed?
The thing I want to mention
>> is that
we need the support
of the board of selectmen,
the town administrator,
and the board of finance.
In the past, I have seen that become a real
focus of contention
between the board of education and the town.
I've been in the gym.
I know many of you probably have been. Mhmm. Maybe you haven't. It's the whole reason I joined the Board of Ed. And
we have to have their support as well.
Otherwise, they decide they're gonna bifurcate the budget, and they're gonna pit us against
who?
So I think you need to also make an outreach effort to,
you know, the boards.
>> I don't know that we have enough time to do many workshops.
So I I would agree with With regard to what Val was talking about as far as the number of meetings Yes. That seems
like it'll do for this year given our very willing
to make short videos and post them on our website this year.
But
>> I'm saying that we'll be similar. No. Yeah. I know. Yeah. But describing, like, what each line item is. Yeah. Yeah. Taylor could absolutely she may take that with me. But I I am willing to do that this year because we have a very short timeline. Yeah.
And that would allow anybody prior to our January,
I think, January 8. Meeting where we are presenting
that will allow them to have some background.
And I would say I would do multiple ones, short ones,
because not everybody's interested in the whole budget.
And so perhaps maybe I'll do three if you'd want me to. I think last year, we broke it into three. Right? To three. Right? That was right. That if they wanted to see one aspect,
they could see that prior to our meeting. Because after presenting it at our January meeting, we would have to decide that if you are gonna have one meeting for families,
and then it's gotta be both of them.
Yeah.
>> So
if you're interested, I'd be willing to do that so that they're poised to fire up the January meeting, and we can consider. I
>> I like the idea of that because that way, I think people can choose to watch them Right. If they want that. And if they don't want it, then they don't have to watch them. Right.
Uh-huh. But, yeah, we you have to present it on January 8, and then I have to vote on it on February 12. So Right. There's not a lot of space Nope. In between there otherwise.
>> So we would do a parent I'm sorry, Eric. We would so then we would do if we decided we would do a parent night between January 8 and 02:12. Yes. Yes.
>> And And also with the seat the senior thing. Right.
>> I have a couple questions on the timeline.
So in with state law,
our
budget
so I'm just gonna read this. At least two months before the annual meeting and appropriations are made, the board of education must submit the estimate to the board of finance.
So
Where are you looking for that one? This is from cave, and it's also in the book page 87. So that's so
the town
meeting is on the ninth.
That puts two months back, February 9. April 9. Oh, sorry. April 9? Yeah. Back off two months where February 9. So
>> I think we need to get the stocks. The changes that they proposed for the charter. Right. So the charter Does the charter rule it? The charter date that's in there, as long as it falls within the guideline of this date,
that would be what they go by. So that's kinda what we're talking about the triboard meeting is the whole change without the window because we don't meet the threshold of an October 15 start. Right. And the ink's not dry yet on the changes to the charter. But what they were talking about at the triboard meeting, I know Julian had talked about that, I think, so and so we did with you, Caitlin. Yeah. Was us trying to cooperate and work with that whole concept or idea of getting it in earlier. This wasn't this is the state law, though, the two months prior to the state or to the town meeting.
>> Right. So but our our town chart like, the new charter changes, they state the date of February 15. The town February 15. Okay. Yeah.
>> So our budget has to be done by February 15. Okay. Then the Yes. So we're we're okay. Right. Yeah. So we're gonna vote on it on our February 12 meeting because
>> right. Okay. Thank you for that. You're welcome. You're welcome. Yeah. And but that's why, right, you're looking at April 9 and counting backwards. That's why the town set their first budget workshop to be February 3 so that they're
two months ahead of Thank you. Yeah.
No. It definitely it They shortens it. Right. We had a lot more time last year. In terms of a student advocate, a couple people had brought that up.
I guess, personally, I I would agree with Jerry. I feel like that that elementary school kids are probably too young for something like that. However,
I think,
probably not for this year, but for future,
it may not be a bad idea to talk with,
like, the teachers that are teaching math to our fifth and sixth graders because looking at Mhmm. Obviously not the budget in the form that it is, but, like Right. How does one make a school budget? It might not be a bad
learning Like, learning opportunities
Absolutely. For them or a project.
I know that last year, my son had did
a project where they, like, had to come up with a food truck and talk about the cost of food and how much they sold it for and, like so, I mean no. I agree. I agree. Declines.
I think there's way to get student involvement with it without it being, like Right. A a kid
here at the table necessarily.
Yes. I agree. I agree.
So to summarize, if everyone's okay with it, then the plan would be for Val to make three separate videos
kind of divided the same way that we did last year
and post those.
What? Under the BOE? BOE website part.
So we always have
Right. Right. The budget works. Yes. Okay. Okay. Yep.
>> And then present the budget for our January meeting, and then we vote on the budget for our February meeting. Between the January meeting and the February meeting, we would try to have a senior luncheon
presentation slash workshop slash questions and a parent night
presentation
thing?
>> Yes. Do we want to try to pick dates for that now? Can you look at the school calendar, Taylor, and just let us know so that it doesn't interfere with
any of the events that are all ready. Because there's the winter concert.
One of the Yeah. That's on
>> hold on. I can the winter concert
winter concert is
the thirtieth,
January 30.
>> That's our only
I'm assuming you're talking about the evening.
So that's our only evening January event that I'm aware of.
Of course, we'd obviously work with rec
to if we're abusing the gym.
I have
>> so our meeting of January 8. So we could do
sometime the week
after that,
the week of the thirteenth.
>> But that will have just presented the budget, so I don't know if we can describe it. We won't have voted on it as far as describing it to parents. I don't know.
Right? As far as having a parent's name to describe everything.
I don't I don't mind. It's just I wouldn't have even been gonna do this then. Well, I think I think the fact we're trying to come up with. Yeah.
>> So I would prefer to have it after we approve it. Because that is We don't have time for it. But
Unless you have a special meeting
>> of the board of education to approve the budget, the regular meeting is on the February 12, but you could schedule a special meeting. No. I'm talking about for the parents. We could schedule it afterwards. Because we're presenting the budget to them. This is what we've approved. Oh, I get it. And then it has to go to the town by the fifteenth. So what? You wanna do it, like, February 13? No. No. No. I So in other words,
>> we'll approve it on February 12. Yeah. It goes to the town on the fifteenth, which is Yeah. But then we're Oh, we have see then in the town meeting. Exactly. I understand. Exactly. So I don't think we are We don't have to do it immediately. So I think would be better to do it. We're have a budget do. That makes sense. I'm picking up what you're putting down.
>> I I will just devil's advocate's historical
ode to Steve Fuss, who's no longer on the board. He
always advocated for, and I will advocate on his behalf right now, for having that meeting prior to you guys voting so that parents have a voice. And
he was a very big advocate for that. I have to agree with him here. If you are voting it in and then you're having a meeting to say to parents, this is what we voted it in Then my vote. Unhappy about it. Right. Where is their feedback? Yeah. And so I disagree that that meeting should take place after you've already voted it in. I feel like you need to have that meeting with the parents prior to. Alright. That's a good point. Yeah. So if January 8 is our BOE meeting and you're presenting it, and then we're gonna vote on it on 02/12,
>> so it would we would wanna have a parents' night either
>> the week of the The week of the twentieth or the twenty seventh? Well,
>> the twenty seventh, you've got the winter concert, which is the thirtieth. Not to say we can't have it that week. But So you wanna do it the week before that? The week of the twentieth,
that's
>> Don't you have Martin Luther King? That's the Martin Luther King. Is the Monday. Yep. That's correct. Do you wanna do Wednesday the twenty second for parents' night? Or Wednesday. That's it. Only because it's aligned to all of the other meetings you guys have. Yeah. So Wednesday January
22?
>> Maybe a board of finance meeting. That doesn't matter. Yeah.
But I'm still at the town. Yep. Absolutely. Absolutely.
Got three board members here. Is that a meeting night?
>> Jo Joanne or Kim or Liz, is the twenty second Sorry. Yes. I was listening. I believe it is. It's that's consistent with
what we normally do. I don't have it up in front of me, but it probably is. Shannon's correct.
We wanna be cognizant of that. Yeah. Sorry. I knew you were talking about it. I didn't hear you ask us. I thought it was amongst yourself. Thank you.
>> You have it up there? It's the last I I'm showing January,
and Twenty second. I don't have anything down there for January 22 on the town calendar.
Almost looks like they didn't put any. But I don't think they have Maybe they didn't put them in. Yeah. Correct. It doesn't there's nothing on for January other than the economic development meeting on the twenty first.
Okay.
>> So Well, I think the alternative is if they do their meeting, their meeting starts at seven via Zoom. Correct?
Yeah. You can always do it six in person.
And
>> then encourage them to log on to their meeting. We'll we'll get people on for you, girls. Or we could do it Thursday. Or you want you wanna do it before the board of finance meeting?
>> You wanna have this It needs to be before their meeting. Just not make it conflicting. Right. Right. So about Thursday the I was just gonna say, what about Thursday the tenth? I'd personally say as a working parent, a 6PM meeting is very difficult for me to attend. So I I think if you're trying to get parents to Yep. Care about the budget,
>> making it so that they would be able to attend. So you would be up for Thursday, the twenty third at 07:00. That I mean, that works for me. But
And I don't think that conflicts with other meetings, but nothing's on there yet. But yep.
So we're Thursday, the twenty third at 7PM. Does that work for you, Tyler? Okay.
>> So Taylor, does that work for you too? Yeah. I don't see anything on again, we'll just have to let rec know if we're gonna use the gym.
They'll have to cancel their activities.
Okay.
>> I mean, we could probably have that in here. Yeah.
>> I don't know how many parents you think you'll get. Yeah.
>> I'm guessing for that. I've seen a lot of people in here doing this. So up there. You can ask her about the plans on this.
>> Alright.
Yeah. And do you know when your January meetings are for P and Z?
Anne?
I don't have to. Okay.
I know I'm unmuted.
I
have to go and look on that.
>> I can't see it on my phone, which is what I'm on.
They have a special budget meeting. Second.
So
>> okay. So there probably won't be one on the twenty third. I think it's not pick up Monday.
Yeah. Yep.
Okay.
So the parasite, January.
Alright.
>> And then for the seniors, are those certain days? Or And by the time yeah. Whatever the release. Okay. I'll I'll do that every 10.
Friday?
>> For the Always Friday? Yeah. Yeah. She's almost always between twelve and one, but you can schedule, like, a half an hour period if you if you could do it or Eric could go. Okay.
You know, just Okay.
Make it very successful. You don't have to go to the.
Absolutely.
>> No. I mean, if I'm gonna go, I'm gonna stay. Great. It's just it's when my it's when our staff meetings are. Oh, no. But okay.
Okay. So next up, unless anyone has any other budget staff. Mike, do you have anything else on the budget?
Nope. All set.
>> Okay.
Would be comments from the public on agenda items.
So,
Charlene?
No. All set.
Okay.
Jenna Goldrick?
All set. Thank you.
Liz?
Thank you. All set.
Christina Frazier?
No comment. Thank you.
Anne?
>> Okay. She can't I just Yeah. I just checked on the meetings,
and board of selectmen is on the thirteenth,
Monday the thirteenth, and PNZ is on Tuesday the twenty first.
>> Great. Perfect. Okay. That's always gonna be good. Thank you so much for checking.
Yep.
Kim? Does she have any comment? Oh, do you have do you have any other comment?
No. Thanks.
Okay.
Kim?
All set. Thank you.
Joanne?
>> Yeah. I just have a couple quick things.
Just to be clear, we haven't set the budget dates formally yet. We're going to, establish those dates at our next meeting.
I know that Eric asked for, he's hand he handed out the worksheets, I think, to the town
departments and asked for everything back on February 3. So, Caitlin, that's probably where that date came from.
I would say we'd probably be,
towards the end of February into March, several Wednesdays in a row. So I think that's what we're aiming for, just to clarify that. And then just overall, I know a lot of discussion tonight was on the Stiff account and the interest specifically,
obviously, which
is generated.
I just wanna point out to everyone, and I'm so thankful that we have a Stiff account in town just because of the additional
revenue that it's producing for our town and our tax payers more importantly.
I know that we'll we're all learning about it. We're all going to determine
how the interest is deposited.
But overall, it's such a good thing, so I don't wanna take away, you know, that and, you know, getting all these fine details ironed out. So thank you. Have a good night.
Thank you very much, Joanne.
Does anyone have other
action items for tonight?
No? I do not. Okay.
>> So our next meeting is gonna be January 8.
In terms of items for January 8 meeting,
Instead of talking about the SIP accounts again,
budget.
Anything else?
The budget isn't as as it is now. Yeah. We'll have an update on the solar
by then. For oh, from the inspection.
Alright.
>> Anything else? Bathroom project will just be a report from VAL at that point, I guess, in terms of progress or how
>> Yeah. I mean, I think that'll depend how that Oh, yeah. Plays out with the tone.
>> But do you wanna do you want a bathroom update? Yeah. Put it on discussion?
Yeah. Let's do that.
Okay.
Does anyone have anything else?
>> You don't have anything else? Do I have to do my resume here? Would someone like to motion Thank to you. I'd
>> like to make a motion to adjourn.
Would someone like to second? All set.
>> Alright, everybody. Happy holidays. Merry Christmas. Happy holidays. You too, Mary.
All in favor. Sorry. Oh my god.
Bye.